# My thoughts on Barbie


Barbie. Just that word alone is enough to paint an image in our heads of someone tall, blonde, and skinny. This does not come as a surprise since the doll itself was modelled to the proportions of a German doll, Lilli, which was targeted towards adult men. This, however, did not stop Barbie from holding 25% of the U.S. market share in dolls and accessories by the year 2009. But as time passed, people became more aware of how Barbie’s body was associated with what beautiful looks like and of how barbie enforced the idea that beauty and smarts were mutually exclusive. And recently, one of the main issues the brand was challenged with is that of inclusivity and diversity. Not everyone looks like Barbie, but everyone wants to be like her and/or thinks that if their appearance strays from what is out there and accepted by everyone as beautiful, then they are the outcasts and don’t feel secure with their identity and appearance. And therein lies the problem. This was once a brand that started off with the vision of inspiring little girls by allowing them to imagine the possibilities of the future but it sure has strayed along the way. And only responding to these concerns after they have been voiced out by the public has led to further damnation and reduced sales since 2012.

Almost always we encounter stories by women writing a long post over social media of how they were insecure when they gained weight but now losing weight has made them feel more secure about their body and beautiful. Now, we can’t say if Barbie itself played a role in this by further promoting what beauty should look like or if this idea of beauty was engraved in people’s minds since they are of the belief that only beautiful women of a certain shape, weight and height get to model clothes. And it certainly does not help when these models are the centre of attention over social media and everyone wants to have a model on their arm. Because of this, we often hear stories of women undergoing surgery to look more like Barbie or like models because of this insecurity that lies deep within them – I am only attractive if I look a certain way. 

Now, we can’t say if there is any causality between the beauty standards perpetuated throughout history being fuelled by Barbie and the presence of women of a certain appearance on the runway, but this has definitely not been favourable to Barbie since models have a body shape that resembles the closest to Babie. Which is why unless this deep-rooted idea of what beautiful looks like does not change, Barbie will not have a good influence on society and will attract criticism.
