# My thoughts on improving HEADSPACE’s website design

The website did not appear cluttered at first as it was limited to just three navigable sections: Home, Discover & Steffi (the user section).  However, the ‘Accounts’ tab in the user section, had at the very bottom some animated clips as well as audio clips that didn’t belong there. So if a user would set out specifically in search for either of these, the website then wouldn’t particularly provide users with an ease of navigation. This could be improved upon by the clips having a section of their own instead of being thrown alongside the user account information. Also, under the ‘Journey’ tab in the user section, an animation (symbol) depicting the action of ‘loading’ was permanently being displayed which wouldn’t be favourable to users associating this symbol’s disappearance leading to something else popping up (or loading) in its place. A simple improvement to this is by not displaying the ‘loading’ symbol. Also, the ‘Stats’ tab at the very end (under the user section) had options to discover packs, singles and minis. Having these options present here are counterproductive as they have their own place under the ‘Discover’ section. They should not have appeared in this section as well as it is repetitive. What could have been done instead, is that this section could display the packs, singles or minis, the user has favourited or listens to frequently. Also, each of these options here had clickable images that didn’t lead to a new page or dialog box when clicked on, which again goes against what a user is familiar with. This could be avoided by eliminating the presence of such click-able but not really functional images. And most importantly, the presence of empty audio clips on the website and the option to discover Minis in the ‘Home’ section with no Minis present leads me to believe that the website is made available  to users although it is incomplete. I would try and improve upon this by making the website available only when it is complete(i.e. the components of the website set to release should not be incomplete and the website should not appear to the user as a work in progress). 

Additionally, I would try and improve upon the other things mentioned initially by make the website easier to navigate and one that aligns with the user’s mental model. For example, having information where the user expects it to be and having relevant information up front i.e. not having to visit a number of web pages in continuation for a user to reach a section that is most visited. That is, in general, the website should be as familiar as the websites the user has visited in the past (for example with the use of grid systems and the usage of icons for the same purpose on this site as they have been used in the past on other websites) but also different enough to make the user want to keep visiting this site and standing out in its own way for its simplicity and the services it provides for its users.
