# My thoughts on Harvard Business Review’s article on ‘Rediscovering Market Segmentation’

Click [here](https://hbr.org/2006/02/rediscovering-market-segmentation) to view the article. 

Before reading this article, I had little insight into how market segmentation is used by companies when it comes to building a new product or even building upon an existing product with additional features. I knew this is what market segmentation is used for but had very little knowledge about how segmentation could also be used in advertising. It made me wonder – Perhaps this is why I resonate with certain advertisements that are displayed and the people in it. Because at times I am them. And this in turn either converts me to be a new customer for that brand or build more loyalty towards them if I am an existing customer. Using segmentation for product development, however, is as important a task as this if not more. But I was surprised to read that many people oftentimes overlook this or don’t take the right approach. It was also interesting to read the nuances between the two – segmenting for advertising and segmenting for product development – in terms of populations studied, data sources considered, analytical tools used and questions answered.

Another thing I pondered over was how this tied into what was taught to us in class previously; about getting customer jobs done. We knew that we needed to identify customer jobs to be done but how do we get there? This article helped me understand how performing customer segmentation well, allows a company to understand which customers are dissatisfied, underserved or not served at all. After all, it is not only important to understand what customer jobs are currently getting done well and why some consumers choose one company’s product over the other but it is equally important identifying why consumers don’t choose that company’s product – what job is it that they are looking to get done that the company at present doesn’t help with or even what job is of most value to this customer that isn’t getting done well which is why they choose another competitor. And right here I understood the value of performing segmentation well. This after all, forms the foundation for forming abstract conceptualizations whenever a company has to develop a product or its feature.

Another thing the article spoke about was how segmentation is fluid and dynamic. It keeps changing as customer needs changes, as their attitudes and behaviours change. Also, it changes as technology advances and economies change. This resonated with one of the reasons we identified as Mattel not performing as well as it hoped with the iconic Barbie – they were not proactive but rather late to understand change in customer behaviour and attitude towards the product and took a reactive stance where they only responded to criticism after it was voiced out by the consumer.

Overall, the article helped me understand how segmentation helps answer multiple questions if only we ask the right question and don’t falter over technicalities while coming up with the solution but keep it simple and intuitive.
