# My thoughts on UPI (Unified Payment Interface) in India

UPI has simplified the online payment transaction process for all registered users. With UPI, an e-commerce vendor simply has to request a user for their mobile number or AADHAR number. Using this, an OTP gets sent to the user’s phone which can then be shared with this vendor so the vendor can then request for the payment to be made. What this allows for is a safer way to make such transactions online as no bank details are being shared with vendors. Also, it is less time-consuming compared to the typical process followed of entering all your bank account details to make an online payment thereby making it hassle-free. Additionally, performing a UPI transaction with other users is much faster as it provides a single platform for the user to add all of their bank account details. So when a user has to make a transaction, the process simply involves entering the payee’s virtual ID, the amount to be transferred and selecting the bank account from which this amount will be debited. To top it all off, UPI forms the backbone for a cashless economy allowing for the decline in criminal activities like robberies and money laundering.


UPI, however, does have its fair share of disadvantages. Although UPI has two-factor authentication in place (with phase one involving entering the mobile phone passcode and phase two involving entering the MPIN), how secure UPI is greatly depends on the strength of the mobile phone passcode. This is because the MPIN in itself is a four digit code which can be susceptible to a simple brute-force attack. So if a user with bad intentions manages to bypass the two-factor authentication process, they would have access to all the bank accounts linked within UPI. Also, the banks partnering up with UPI have their own daily transaction limits in place. Therefore, a user seeking to transfer funds beyond that limit would feel restricted and seek other modes of transfer like internet banking. Finally, only 41% of the Indian population has access to the internet thereby making UPI not as ubiquitous as it needs to be for the presence of a cashless economy.

For more information on UPI please click [here](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/u/unified-payment-interface-upi.asp#:~:text=A%20Unified%20Payment%20Interface%20(UPI)%20is%20a%20smartphone%20application%20that,Corporation%20of%20India%20(NPCI).&text=The%20Unified%20Payment%20Interface%20is%20a%20real%2Dtime%20payment%20system.)
